Let's add in the springfox‑bean‑validators library and see how
that enhances the documentation. We'll add the @ApiModelProperty
annotation to observe the precedence,
then add in the additional property so our required value shows up correctly
in the Swagger UI. We'll also look at a service with an @ApiOperation
annotation to see where those values can change. In the employee entity,
notice how we've added a @NotNull annotation to the department attribute. When
we look at the Swagger UI, there's nothing to indicate that this is a required
attribute from this documentation. Let's add in the springfox‑bean‑validators
library so that we can automatically generate some information from that
annotation.
First, we'll add the dependency to the POM.
Next,
we'll import the BeanValidatorPluginsConfiguration class
in our ApplicationSwaggerConfig class.
That's all we'll do at this point.
We've simply added the library and imported the class, and we'll restart
our application and see what changes. We'll refresh the page, go back
down to the Models. Notice the red asterisk next to department,
indicating that this is a required attribute.
What happens if we also add an @ApiModelProperty to the department
attribute? Let's restart the application and see what happens. We'll refresh
the Swagger UI. Notice how the description is there,
but we're missing the asterisk next to department.
This is because the @ApiModelProperty takes precedence over
the @NotNull annotation for documentation.
If you want to keep an asterisk next to department in the
documentation, you'll need to add the required = true value
for the @ApiModelProperty annotation.
Let's restart,
refresh the page, and now we have the red asterisk back in the
documentation. To see what the @ApiOperation annotation does, let's check
out the GET method under the example service. Notice that it's a GET, and
by default it says getSchedule next to the URI.
When we expand it, there's no additional information that
appears. If we go to the ExampleService class,
we can add the @ApiOperation annotation with a value and notes.
Now when we restart the app and refresh our page,
notice that now what we put in for value appears next to the schedule URI, Get
the default schedule for employees, and what we put under the notes value
appears underneath All employees share the same schedule.
This is a simple way to utilize a Swagger annotation if you
have some additional services that you've added to your Spring Data REST API project.